Title: Are mobile Providers Ripping Us Off?
Date: 2011-04-08 18:17
Author: Tim White
Category: Blog, Technical
Tags: Cap Plan, Comparison, Exetel, iinet, Mobile, Optus, Pennytel, Phone, Post Paid, Pre Paid, Provider, Telstra, Virgin, voip
Slug: are-mobile-providers-ripping-us-off

With so many options, so many plans, it's hard to know if we are being
ripped off or getting a good deal. Then bring in VoIP, and things get
even trickier.

For the sake of this research, I was looking for a mobile phone plan,
prepaid or post paid, that would ideally cost less than \$40 a month and
didn't rely on any VoIP. (Due to data connections being unreliable and
sometimes VoIP applications are difficult, like calling an access number
then dialing the rest of your number). I firstly crunched just the
numbers, to get an idea of what Mobile Cap plans actually give you in
real dollars, not cap dollars, and how that would translate into minutes
of talk time or sms's. Finally, I took my actual usage logs (which my
Android saves to my Gmail account for me via SMS Backup+), and crunched
the numbers to work out how much that usage would cost me on each plan.

First, a bit about  my method in crunching the numbers. Most mobile
providers charge in 1 or 3 ways, per second, per 30 seconds, or per
minute. If you make long calls, then per minute billing won't really
make much of a difference, but if you make short calls, then per minute
billing could end up costing you lots. For example, if all my calls are
less than 30 seconds long, and I'm on per minute billing, then I'm
always paying for a minute, even though I've used less than half of
that!  
Using that, I figured that splitting my calls in to 3 categories would
allow me to best see the cost difference between per second, per 30
second, and per minute billing. Calls less than 30 seconds, Calls more
than 30 seconds but less than a minute, and calls longer than a minute.
I then wrote my formulas using the split categories, using the average
call length for each category and the number of calls. To verify that
this wasn't skewing my data, I then took 1 month and calculated the
total cost processing each call to the second, for per second, per 30
second and per minute billing. The results were almost 100% the same
between the 2 methods. You are welcome to show me some mathematical
proof as to why this happens, just know that if I take the average
length of all calls for the month, and don't split them into categories,
then the results are not close and the providers offering per second
billing loose their advantage.

So, as you may have already worked out, per second billing can really
save you money. Which is probably why more and more providers are moving
away from per second billing towards per minute billing. You'll notice a
lot of VoIP providers advertise per second billing, which is because
people know that they are only paying for what they use. For example, my
scenario outcome for one month on one particular per minute biller,
comes out to \$311, but if they offered per 30 second billing like they
previously did, I'd save \$32 worth of cap credit, or about \$2 of real
money. Not much, but as you can see, it's extra money in the providers
pockets.

When I started my research, I expected to find that these Cap plans are
ripping us off with the illusion of lots of money (cap credit) for very
little real money. I also expected to find that per second billing would
save us the most money. And I hoped to find a provider that would be
better value than my current one. Well, a lot of my expectations have
been crushed.

Instead, what I've found is that while the Cap plans do have a very high
call rate, and high flag fall, they are actually good value.**Note
however, that the numbers I'm about to quote assume that you ether use
*all* the cap credit on a call, or on sms's, and don't take into account
flagfalls (which would be charged for each call).**

*A plan with a \$0.99 per minute call rate, costs \$0.06 per minute in
real dollars.*  
*The same plan with \$0.28 sms rate, costs \$0.02 per sms in real
dollars.*

When I first saw these numbers, I was shocked. So for comparison, I
looked at one of the cheapest VoIP providers. \$0.105 per minute, no
flagfall and per second billing. And \$0.05 per sms. Yes, you read that
correctly, the mobile phone is cheaper! Now before you trash your VoIP,
that VoIP rate is to mobile phones in Australia, calls to Landlines and
of course, overseas calls will be cheaper.

One of the plans I was looking at thinking should work out cheaper, is
actually a VoIP providers plan. They provider a mobile sim card, with
decent call rates, and free calls to their VoIP numbers, so you can then
make your normal call. But as you can see above, even with the VoIP call
being made over the mobile network, it is still cheaper with this Cap
plan! I had also been thinking of using a callback VoIP provider, I call
an access number, it hangs up and calls me back, then I dial the number
I want and it calls the other side. No cost on the mobile side (except I
need to have credit to make the call, even though I'm not charged for
the call). Yet this requires 2 calls via the VoIP provider, one back to
my mobile, and one to whom ever I'm calling, and at \$0.105 a minute,
that's \$0.21 a minute all up!

So when is VoIP cheaper then? It's cheaper for international, and
untimed calls, for example, calls to landlines in Australia and a number
of other countries.

So, at the end of the day, Mobile providers aren't ripping us off, well,
not as much as I thought. Yes, per minute billing means more money to
the providers, and Caps that you don't use completely are also wasting
some money. But even with the months of very light usage, the Cap still
works out cheaper than going with other plans.

My recommendation, go for a Cap plan that gives you enough Cap \$'s that
you won't go over (especially if going post-paid) but you also won't
have heaps unused each month. Then, if your phone can, setup VoIP and
use it for calls to fixed lines. (This could be via mobile data or WiFi
depending on how good the 3G is where you live).  If you don't call
mobiles much, or SMS, and get good 3G in your area, then a Data only
plan with VoIP might be a better choice, as long as you are sure you
don't need normal mobile voice service.

[caption id="attachment\_267" align="alignright" width="300"
caption="Snapshot of comparison"][![][]][][/caption]

NB: Yes, I have taken into account Free calls between phones on the same
carriers, however I only used calls between me and my wife as fitting
into this category, as they are the only calls we can guarantee to be on
the same network.

  []: http://tim.purewhite.id.au/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/Phone-Comparison-300x126.png
    "Phone Comparison"
  [![][]]: http://tim.purewhite.id.au/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/Phone-Comparison.png
